---
title: Check-In and Review
---

## Check-In and Review
_Suggested time: 5 min_

<br>

### Welcome back!

Take a few minutes to revisit the list of expectations your group established in the previous meeting. Open the floor to any suggestions from the group about additional expectations they'd like to propose going forward.

<br>

### Module 2 Review 

To recap, here are the main topics covered in earlier modules. We’ll build on these in Module 4.
**Data:** Facts, details, statistics, or any information collected together for reference or analysis.

**Classification:** A classifier makes predictions by assigning labels to observational data. In the video we saw several classifiers that observed facts about the world and decided whether the light should be turned on or off based on these observations. Classifiers are engineering artefacts. To check whether they work, we collect observations (e.g., whether it’s dark outside) for which we know what the outcome should be (e.g., whether the light is actually on), ask the classifier to make a prediction, and compare the prediction with the true outcome. 

In Module 2, we discussed how machines learn from data to make decisions on our behalf, and how some of those decisions can have a great impact on our lives. This module explores how those decisions are influenced by human bias.

<br>

### Group Check-In

Give everyone 1–2 minutes to share their responses to the following questions:
* When you think about or hear the term "bias", what comes to mind?
* Considering your own experience or understanding of bias, how can you imagine bias positively or negatively impacting the data and technologies we've been exploring? 
