---
title: Check-In and Review
---

## Check-In and Review (5 min)

<br>

### Welcome back!

Take a few minutes to revisit the list of expectations your group established in the previous meeting. Open the floor to any suggestions from the group about additional expectations they'd like to propose going forward.

<br>

### Module 2 Review 

To recap, here are the main topics covered in Module 2:

**Data:** Facts, details, statistics, or any information collected together for reference or analysis.

**Classification:** A classifier makes predictions by assigning labels to observational data. In the video we saw several classifiers that observed facts about the world and decided whether the light should be turned on or off based on these observations. Classifiers are engineering artefacts. To check whether they work, we collect observations (e.g., whether it’s dark outside) for which we know what the outcome should be (e.g., whether the light is on), ask the classifier to make a prediction, and compare the prediction with the true outcome. 

<br>

### Group Check-In

Give everyone 1–2 minutes to say hello:
* Did you notice any of the themes from last week’s meeting pop up in your life this week? 
* Do you use or rely on any kinds of automated systems in your day-to-day life?

> Facilitator tip: You can also use an [icebreaker](https://museumhack.com/list-icebreakers-questions/) to connect the group through their passions outside of this topic. Look for questions that allow for a wide range of answers and avoid topics that may exclude or isolate some participants.
