---
title: Wrap Up & Looking Forward
---

## Wrap Up & Looking Forward
_Suggested time: 5 min_

To recap, here are the important concepts from Module 3: 

**Algorithmic morality** is the act of attributing moral reasoning to algorithms. 

The **trolley problem** is an ethical dilemma that illustrates the principles of utilitarianism. It involves making decisions about whether to sacrifice the life of one person to save another person, or a group of people.

**Utilitarianism** is a moral principle that holds that the right course of action in any situation is the one that produces the greatest balance of benefits over harms for everyone affected.  According to this principle, an action is right if it promotes happiness or pleasure, and it is wrong if it produces unhappiness or pain—not just for the performer of the action but also for everyone else affected by it. Utilitarianism stems from the late 18th- and 19th-century English philosophers and economists Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill.  

You can find a description of these and other concepts in the <a href="../../../glossary">Glossary</a>.

<br>

#### Closing Reflection
Hearing a reflection from everyone in a meeting is a great way to round out your understanding of the learning materials and identify ways to improve future meetings. Take a few minutes to write out 1–2 sentence responses to the following questions or take turns answering them out loud: 

What is one thing you...					
1. Learned in today’s meeting?
1. Liked about today’s meeting? 
1. Wish you could have changed about today’s meeting? 
1. Are confused about or want to learn about AI in a future meeting?

<br>

#### Preview for module 4: 

On a computer with a webcam, try out this image classifier: [Teachable Machine ](https://teachablemachine.withgoogle.com/models/jyGBSu_n1/)

Make a note of how the program classifies you (higher-priority vs. lower-priority). We’ll use this tool in Module 4!
