---
title: Check-In and Review
---

## Check-In and Review (15 min)

<br>

#### Welcome back!

Take a minute to revisit the list of group expectations and open the floor briefly to any suggestions from the group about ways to address any misunderstandings that may arise in today’s meetings.

<br>

#### Module 3 Review 
In module 3 we learned about some ethical issues that can arise with algorithms. In Module 4, we’ll further engage with ethics in AI by exploring a hypothetical scenario of a fully autonomous self-driving car deciding who lives or dies in a moral experiment called the “trolley problem.” We will use this experiment to frame our discussion around the key ethical issues surrounding AI and why we need to engage in active debate around ethics.

<br>

#### Group Check-In
Give everyone 1–2 minutes to say hello:
* Did you notice any of the themes from last week’s meeting pop up in your life this week? 

> Facilitator tip: You can also use an icebreaker to connect the group through their passions outside of this topic. Look for questions that allow for a wide range of answers and avoid topics that may exclude or isolate some participants.

<br>

#### Warm-up (10 min)		
Think about the term “AI ethics.” In the group, collect all the different elements, activities, or roles that come to your mind in this context. For example: bias, privacy, accountability, justice. 

What are some common themes across the collection? How broad or narrow is the term “ethics” here? 

> Facilitator tip: You can use a [Jamboard](https://jamboard.google.com/) for this activity. A jamboard is a digital whiteboard that we want to use to get thoughts, reactions, or ideas out of people’s heads and into the conversation. For this jamboard session, generate an empty jamboard and put at the top of the jamboard the following question: “What comes to mind, when you think about the term AI ethics?” Then, you should take 2 minutes to collect as many thoughts, reactions, ideas, etc. as possible, each on a digital post-it note. Use your phone to set an alarm. After the two minutes have passed, try to cluster the notes to identify and discuss common themes. 
