---
title: Wrap Up & Looking Forward
---

# Wrap Up & Looking Forward (5 min)

To recap, here are the important definitions from Module 1:

**Algorithm:** “an algorithm is a procedure that allows us to solve a problem without having to invent a solution each time” Cooking great chicken noodle soup, getting the fastest directions to a destination, or troubleshooting the check-engine light in your car… these are all algorithms! 

**Artificial Intelligence:** “we get to Artificial Intelligence when steps and goals (algorithms) are used by a computer (artificial) to make decisions (intelligence) using data.” This is how AI powers much of the technology we have come to rely upon in modern life. But the key to remember is that Artificial intelligence is always derived from “Everyday Intelligence” that all human beings possess. Just like everyday intelligence, artificial intelligence is not just an algorithm, it also involves data and decisions. Which AI is “best” depends on the goals we have for it and on its context of use. 

Module 2 will explore how computers can “learn” in order to improve their algorithms.

<br>

### Closing Reflection

Hearing a reflection from everyone in a meeting is a great way to round out your understanding of the learning materials and identify ways to improve future meetings. Take a few minutes to write out 1–2 sentence responses to the following questions or take turns answering them out loud: 

What is one thing you...					
1. Learned in today’s meeting?
1. Liked about today’s meeting? 
1. Wish you could have changed about today’s meeting? 
1. Are confused about or want to learn about AI in a future meeting?
